## Chapter 1: Graphing Data

Many people think of data visualization as intricate interactive graphics of dazzling complexity. As all of us have spent time on the Internet, we've been blessed and entertained with marvelous visualizations from top  professionals working at some of the world’s best web sites. Creating effective visualizations, however, doesn't require Picasso’s artistic skills nor Turing’s programming expertise. In fact, when you consider the ultimate purpose of data visualization—helping users _understand_ data—simplicity stands out as one of the most important virtues. Simple, straightforward charts are often the easiest to understand. After all, your users have seen hundreds or thousands of bar charts, line charts, x-y plots, and the like. They know the conventions that underlie these charts, and they can effortlessly interpret any well-designed example. That makes them the first choice for planning any visualization. If a simple, static chart presents your data best, use it. You’ll spend less effort creating your visualization, and your users will spend less effort trying to understand it.
Simplicity brings an extra bonus: There are many high quality tools and libraries to help you get started. Not only can you avoid reinventing the wheel, you can be assured of a reasonably attractive presentation using nothing but the libraries’ defaults. We’ll look at several of these tools throughout the book; for this chapter the library of choice is [flotr2](www.humblesoftware.com/flotr2/). As we’ll see, flotr2 makes it easy to add standard bar charts, line charts, and pie charts to any web page. It also supports some less common chart types, and you can even extend it to create a completely custom chart just for your data. We’ll take a look at all of these techniques in the examples that follow. Here’s what we’ll learn:
* How to create a basic bar chart* How to plot continuous data with a line chart* How to emphasize fractions with a pie chart* How to plot X/Y data with a scatter chart* How to show magnitudes of X/Y data with a bubble chart* How to display multidimensional data with a radar chart* How to create a custom chart type