# Data Visualization with Javascript

Even the BBC and the New York Times have noticed: Data defines our world. Yet according to some [estimates](http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/06/04/big_data_too_big/), 99.5% of the data our systems collect goes to waste. No one ever analyzes it effectively. How can we meet this challenge and take advantage of the data that we spend our money, time, and resources collecting? One tool that we cannot neglect is _visualization_.

Effective visualizations clarify; they transform collections of abstract artifacts (otherwise known as numbers) into shapes and forms that viewers quickly grasp and understand. The best visualizations, in fact, impart this understanding subconsciously. Viewers comprehend the data immediately—without thinking. Such presentations free the viewer to more fully consider the implications of the data: the stories it tells, the insights it reveals, or even the warnings it offers. That, of course, is defines the best kind of communication.

If you’re developing web sites or web applications today, there’s a good chance you have data to communicate, and that data may be begging for a good visualization. But how do you know what kind of visualization is appropriate? And, even more importantly, how do you actually create one? Answers to those very questions are the core of this work. In the chapters that follow, we explore dozens of different visualizations and visualization techniques and tool kits. Each example discusses the appropriateness of the visualization (and suggests possible alternatives) and provides step-by-step instructions for including the visualization in your own web pages.

As the title no doubt makes clear, these examples rely primarily on Javascript programming. To add the examples to your own sites, you will need basic Javascript skills and knowledge. For all but the most complex visualizations, however, no advanced skills are necessary. If, for example, your experience includes a bit of jQuery, you’ll be fine. And even the most advanced visualizations include complete step-by-step instructions.

To make the text as clear and readable as possible, these examples generally contain isolated snippets of Javascript, plus occasional fragments of HTML or CSS. Complete examples are available on [GitHub](https://github.com/sathomas/jsdataviz).

> A quick note about [D3.js](http://d3js.org) and [Javascript Infovis Toolkit](http://philogb.github.com/jit/): Although we don’t cover either library in this text, they are both powerful and flexible packages. Both libraries are also complex and extensive, however, and doing justice to either would require an entire book. They are also especially well-suited for data visualization professionals, designers and developers that live and breath complex and intricate visualizations. This book aims for a broader audience: web designers and developers that mostly worry about traditional web development problems (CSS3, HTML5, etc.) but still want to present data effectively. Its main goal is giving those designers and developers the tools they can use, without requiring a full time commitment to advanced data visualization.